---
title: Additive Synthesis
layout: template
filename: additive.md
--- 

[Go Back](https://arjun2908.github.io/CSE-471-Project1/)

## Additive Synthesis - Arjun Gupta ##

To create sound, the additive synthesizer combines sinusoids.

The ADSREnvelope class is derived from the Envelope class. The envelopes are generated by the ADSREnvelope class, which also handles the Attack, Release, Decay, or Sustain (ADSR). The AdditiveWave class, which is unique to additive synthesis wave generation, uses the SampleWave class, which contains common wave components, as its base class. The AdditiveWave class generates a cross-fade, sets wave tables, implements harmonics, and implements vibrato. The AmpFilter (amplitude filter) is derived from the AudioFilter base class. The audio is filtered by the amplitude factor using the AmpFilter class, which produces a clearer output of audio. The instrument that will be generated in the Synthesizer class is the AdditiveInstrument class.

Here, the appropriate wave is generated by examining the score file XML, and it is decided whether to use vibrato or cross-fade. Here, the notes are set and any harmonics that are required are added. When a new AdditiveInstrument is created to generate the intended score from the passed-in file, all these elements come together.

Grading Elements Supported:
- 10 - Sinusoid playback on demand from the sequencer
- 20 - Definition of all harmonics
- 30 - Envelope generation
- 35 - Polyphony
- 40 - Sound cross-fading
- 50 - Vibrato OR glissando
